docs/sphinx/keyword_table.rst, before:


Common: Used in every mode
--------------------------

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option        | Description                                                                       | Type   | Default   |
+===============+===================================================================================+========+===========+
| depends       | A job or list of jobs to depend on                                                | list   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| clean_files   | Auto clean script files when fetching outputs                                     | bool   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| clean_outputs | Auto clean output files when fetching outputs                                     | bool   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| cores         | Number of cores to use for the job                                                | int    | 1         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| modules       | Modules to load with the `module load` command                                    | list   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| scriptpath    | Folder to write cluster script files to, must be accessible to the compute nodes. | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| outpath       | Folder to write cluster output files to, must be accessible to the compute nodes. | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| runpath       | The working directory for the job                                                 | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| suffix        | A suffix to append to job files (e.g. job.suffix.qsub)                            | str    | cluster   |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| outfile       | File to write STDOUT to                                                           | str    | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| errfile       | File to write STDERR to                                                           | str    | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Func: Used for function calls
-----------------------------

+----------+-----------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                                         | Type   | Default   |
+==========+=====================================================+========+===========+
| imports  | Imports to be used in function calls (e.g. sys, os) | list   | None      |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Local: Used only in local mode
------------------------------

+----------+-----------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                                   | Type   |   Default |
+==========+===============================================+========+===========+
| threads  | Number of threads to use on the local machine | int    |         4 |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Cluster: Options that work in both slurm and torque
---------------------------------------------------

+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| Option    | Description                                               | Type           | Default   |
+===========+===========================================================+================+===========+
| nodes     | Number of nodes to request                                | int            | 1         |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| features  | A comma-separated list of node features to require        | list           | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| time      | Walltime in HH:MM:SS                                      | str            | 12:00:00  |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| mem       | Memory to use in MB (e.g. 4000)                           | ['int', 'str'] | 4000      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| partition | The partition/queue to run in (e.g. local/batch)          | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| account   | Account to be charged                                     | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| export    | Comma separated list of environmental variables to export | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+


Slurm: Used for slurm only
--------------------------

+----------+----------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                | Type   | Default   |
+==========+============================+========+===========+
| begin    | Start after this much time | str    | None      |
+----------+----------------------------+--------+-----------+


Synonyms
--------

+----------------+---------------+
| Synonym        | Option        |
+================+===============+
| depend         | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| dependency     | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| dependencies   | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| stdout         | outfile       |
+----------------+---------------+
| stderr         | errfile       |
+----------------+---------------+
| queue          | partition     |
+----------------+---------------+
| memory         | mem           |
+----------------+---------------+
| cpus           | cores         |
+----------------+---------------+
| walltime       | time          |
+----------------+---------------+
| delete_files   | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| delete_outputs | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| filedir        | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| filepath       | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| dir            | runpath       |
+----------------+---------------+
| path           | runpath       |
+----------------+---------------+
| scriptdir      | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanfiles     | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| delfiles       | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanouts      | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| delouts        | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| deloutputs     | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanoutputs   | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+

Commit message:

Add splitrun helper to helpers.py
Multiple changes to allow indirect helper submission

- Now use sys.path.append for most modules
- Very liberal imports for all functions
- New option 'syspaths' to allow passing of paths to add to function
  directly
- Added a 'sanitize_arguments' function to options.py to allow checking
  of arguments without raising Exceptions on failed checks, instead just
  returning the original argument.
- Updated tests to provide better coverage of new helper functions and
  misc functions in run.py
- Updated job.py and submission scripts to allow catching exitcodes on
  failure, and to raise any caught Exceptions from child jobs.
- Added two new requirements: six and tblib to allow better handling of
  Exceptions on nodes.

Also restructured files, moving submission scripts to a new file.

docs/sphinx/keyword_table.rst, after:


Common: Used in every mode
--------------------------

+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option        | Description                                                                       | Type   | Default   |
+===============+===================================================================================+========+===========+
| depends       | A job or list of jobs to depend on                                                | list   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| clean_files   | Auto clean script files when fetching outputs                                     | bool   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| clean_outputs | Auto clean output files when fetching outputs                                     | bool   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| cores         | Number of cores to use for the job                                                | int    | 1         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| modules       | Modules to load with the `module load` command                                    | list   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| syspaths      | Paths to add to sys.path for submitted functions                                  | list   | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| scriptpath    | Folder to write cluster script files to, must be accessible to the compute nodes. | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| outpath       | Folder to write cluster output files to, must be accessible to the compute nodes. | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| runpath       | The working directory for the job                                                 | str    | .         |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| suffix        | A suffix to append to job files (e.g. job.suffix.qsub)                            | str    | cluster   |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| outfile       | File to write STDOUT to                                                           | str    | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| errfile       | File to write STDERR to                                                           | str    | None      |
+---------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Func: Used for function calls
-----------------------------

+----------+-----------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                                         | Type   | Default   |
+==========+=====================================================+========+===========+
| imports  | Imports to be used in function calls (e.g. sys, os) | list   | None      |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Local: Used only in local mode
------------------------------

+----------+-----------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                                   | Type   |   Default |
+==========+===============================================+========+===========+
| threads  | Number of threads to use on the local machine | int    |         4 |
+----------+-----------------------------------------------+--------+-----------+


Cluster: Options that work in both slurm and torque
---------------------------------------------------

+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| Option    | Description                                               | Type           | Default   |
+===========+===========================================================+================+===========+
| nodes     | Number of nodes to request                                | int            | 1         |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| features  | A comma-separated list of node features to require        | list           | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| time      | Walltime in HH:MM:SS                                      | str            | 12:00:00  |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| mem       | Memory to use in MB (e.g. 4000)                           | ['int', 'str'] | 4000      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| partition | The partition/queue to run in (e.g. local/batch)          | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| account   | Account to be charged                                     | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+
| export    | Comma separated list of environmental variables to export | str            | None      |
+-----------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------+-----------+


Slurm: Used for slurm only
--------------------------

+----------+----------------------------+--------+-----------+
| Option   | Description                | Type   | Default   |
+==========+============================+========+===========+
| begin    | Start after this much time | str    | None      |
+----------+----------------------------+--------+-----------+


Synonyms
--------

+----------------+---------------+
| Synonym        | Option        |
+================+===============+
| depend         | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| dependency     | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| dependencies   | depends       |
+----------------+---------------+
| stdout         | outfile       |
+----------------+---------------+
| stderr         | errfile       |
+----------------+---------------+
| queue          | partition     |
+----------------+---------------+
| memory         | mem           |
+----------------+---------------+
| cpus           | cores         |
+----------------+---------------+
| walltime       | time          |
+----------------+---------------+
| delete_files   | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| delete_outputs | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| filedir        | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| filepath       | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| dir            | runpath       |
+----------------+---------------+
| path           | runpath       |
+----------------+---------------+
| paths          | syspaths      |
+----------------+---------------+
| syspath        | syspaths      |
+----------------+---------------+
| scriptdir      | scriptpath    |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanfiles     | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| delfiles       | clean_files   |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanouts      | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| delouts        | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| deloutputs     | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
| cleanoutputs   | clean_outputs |
+----------------+---------------+
