docs/index.rst, before:

Welcome to Python Cluster's documentation!
==========================================

Submit jobs to slurm or torque, or with multiprocessing.

+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Author  | Michael D Dacre <mike.dacre@gmail.com>             |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| License | MIT License, property of Stanford, use as you wish |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Version | 0.6.1b                                             |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+

Allows easy job submission with *dependency tracking and queue waiting* with
either torque, slurm, or locally with the multiprocessing module. It uses simple
techiques to avoid overwhelming the queue and to catch bugs (e.g. queue stalling)
on the fly.

NOTE: While this software is extremely powerful for pure python-based cluster job
submission, `snakemake <https://bitbucket.org/snakemake/snakemake/wiki/Home>`_ is
possibly a better choice for very large workflows.

Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   
   usage
   scripts
   api
 

* :ref:`modindex`  
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

Changed name from Python Cluster to Fyrd
Python Cluster is taken several times over, I wanted a more creative
name. Fyrd is the Anglo-Saxon word for 'Army', plus it is just a great
word, so I am going with that.

As this is a large change, I am incrementing the version to beta.2. To
do this I changed the release string to handle semantic versioning
better.

I rebuilt the documentation and altered the configuration to work with
readthedocs.io.

docs/index.rst, after:

Fyrd's Documentation
====================
 
Submit jobs to compute clusters with slurm, torque, or simple multiprocessing.

+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Author  | Michael D Dacre <mike.dacre@gmail.com>             |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| License | MIT License, property of Stanford, use as you wish |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+
| Version | 0.6.1-beta.2                                       |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------+

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/MikeDacre/fyrd.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/MikeDacre/fyrd
.. image:: https://api.codacy.com/project/badge/Grade/c163cff81a1941a18b2c5455901695a3
   :target: https://www.codacy.com/app/mike-dacre/fyrd?utm_source=github.com&amp;utm_medium=referral&amp;utm_content=MikeDacre/fyrd&amp;utm_campaign=Badge_Grade
.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/fyrd/badge/?version=latest
   :target: https://fyrd.readthedocs.io/
.. image:: https://img.shields.io/badge/python%20versions-2.7%203.4%203.5%203.6-brightgreen.svg

Formerly known as 'Python Cluster'

Allows simple job submission with *dependency tracking and queue waiting* with
either torque, slurm, or locally with the multiprocessing module. It uses simple
techiques to avoid overwhelming the queue and to catch bugs on the fly.

For complete documentation see `the documentation site <https://fyrd.readthedocs.io>`_
and the `Fyrd.pdf <Fyrd.pdf>`_ document in this repository.

NOTE: This software is still in beta, the scripts in bin/ do not all function
properly and the software has not been fully tested on slurm systems. Please
report any problems to the github issues page. Version 0.6.2 will resolve all
of these outstanding bugs.

NOTE: While this software is extremely powerful for pure python-based cluster job
submission, `snakemake <https://bitbucket.org/snakemake/snakemake/wiki/Home>`_ is
possibly a better choice for very large workflows.

In the future this code will work with Makefiles and will be more robust, but it
needs further development before that happens, for now it can just be used as a
simple python submission library.

Contents:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 3
   
   usage
   scripts
   api
   indices
