docs/usage.rst, before:

.. This file is based on the README.rst file for the whole project.


Installation
============

This module will work with Python 2.7+ on Linux systems.

To install, use the standard python method:

.. code:: shell

  git clone https://github.com/MikeDacre/python-cluster
  cd python-cluster
  python ./setup.py install --user

In general you want user level install even if you have sudo access, as most
cluster environments share /home/<user> across the cluster, making this module
available everywhere.

*Note:* While the name is `python-cluster` you will import it just as `cluster`:

.. code:: python

  import cluster

Prerequisites
-------------

The only external module that I use in this software is `dill
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/dill>`_. It isn't 100% required but it makes
function submission much more stable.

If you choose to use dill, it must be installed cluster wide.

Function Submission
-------------------

In order to submit functions to the cluster, this module must import them on the
compute node. This means that all of your python modules must be available on
every compute node. To avoid pain and debugging, you can do this manually by
running this on your loggin node:

.. code:: shell

  freeze --local | grep -v '^\-e' | cut -d = -f 1 > module_list.txt

And then on the compute nodes:

.. code:: shell

  cat module_list.txt | xargs pip install --user

This will ensure that all of your modules are installed globally.

In general it is a good idea to install modules as `--user` with pip to avoid
this issue.

Simple Usage
============

Setting Environment
-------------------

To set the environement, set queue.MODE to one of ['torque', 'slurm', 'local'],
or run get_cluster_environment().

Simple Job Submission
---------------------

At its simplest, this module can be used by just executing submit(<command>),
where command is a function or system command/shell script. The module will
autodetect the cluster, generate an intuitive name, run the job, and write all
outputs to files in the current directory. These can be cleaned with
clean_dir().

To run with dependency tracking, run:

.. code:: python

  import cluster
  job  = cluster.submit(<command1>)
  job2 = cluster.submit(<command2>, dependencies=job1)
  exitcode, stdout, stderr = job2.get()  # Will block until job completes

Functions
---------

The submit function works well with python functions as well as with shell
scripts and shell commands.

*However,* in order for this to work, `cluster` ends up importing your original
script file on the nodes. This means that all code in your file will be
executed, so anything that isn't a function or class must be protected with an:

.. code:: python

  if __name__ == '__main__':

protecting statment.

If you do not do this you can end up with multi-submission and infinate
recursion, which could mess up your jobs or just crash the job, but either way,
it won't be good.

File Submission
---------------

If you want to just submit a file, that can be done like this:

.. code:: python

  from cluster import submit_file
  submit_file('/path/to/script', dependencies=[7, 9])

This will return the job number and will enter the job into the queue as
dependant on jobs 007 and 009. The dependencies can be omitted.

The Job Class
-------------

The core of this submission system is a `Job` class, this class allows easy
job handling and debugging. All of the above commands work well with the Job
class also, but more fine grained control is possible. For example:

.. code:: python
  
  my_job = """#!/bin/bash
  parallel /usr/bin/parser {} ::: folder/*.txt
  for i in folder/*.txt; do
      echo $i >> my_output.txt
      echo job_$i done!
  fi"""
  job = cluster.Job(my_job, cores=16)
  job.submit()
  job.wait()
  print(job.stdout)
  if job.exitcode != 0:
      print(job.stderr)

More is also possible, for a full description, see the API documentation here:
`Job Documentation <https://mikedacre.github.io/python-cluster/api.html#job-management>`_


Scripts
=======

While this software is designed to be used as a python library, several scripts
are provided to make life easier.

my-queue
--------

Uses python-cluster to check the job queue for only one user's jobs.  Produces
a very simple display, for full job information, the regular tools can be used
(e.g squeue)::

  Choose jobs to show, default is all:
    -r, --running  Show running jobs only
    -q, --queued   Show queued jobs only

  Choose alternate output style:
    -c, --count    Display count only
    -l, --list     Print space separated list of job numbers

cluster-profile
---------------

This script allows the user to save cluster keyword arguments in a config file
located at ~/.python-cluster.

Rather than edit that file directly, use this script to add profiles and
options.

There are two classes of options: global options, and profiles.

Global options will be used in all profiles, but only if the option is not
already present in the profile definition. Profiles must be called every time
and allow bundled keyword arguments, they can also be overridden by providing
keyword arguments at runtime.

Global options are great for saving a default queue.

Modes::

  General:
    :list:   Display all global options and profiles.

  Profile Management:
    :add:    Add a profile
             Usage: add profile_name keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :edit:   Edit an existing profile
             Usage: edit profile_name keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :remove: Delete an existing profile (The default profile will be recreated
             if it does not exist when a job is submitted.
             Usage: remove|del profile_name

  Global Option Management:
    :add-global:    Add a global keyword
                    Usage: add-global keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :remove-global: Remove a global keyword
                    Usage: remove-global|del-global keyword [keyword ...]

  Dangerous:
    :reset: Completely reset your entire profile to the defaults. 


monitor-jobs
------------
 
Blocks until provided jobs complete. Allows to monitor by user, partition, or
simple job list::

  Arguments are cumulative except user. For example::
    auto_resubmit -p bob -j 172436 172437
  user can be 'self'
  This command will monitor all jobs in the bob partition as
  well as the two jobs specified directly.
  However::
    monitor_jobs -p bob -u fred
  This command will only monitor fred's jobs in bob (the union).

clean-job-files
---------------

Uses the cluster.job.clean_dir() function to clean all job files in the current
directory.

Caution: The clean() function will delete **EVERY** file with extensions
matching those these::

    .<suffix>.err
    .<suffix>.out
    .<suffix>.sbatch & .cluster.script for slurm mode
    .<suffix>.qsub for torque mode
    .<suffix> for local mode
    _func.<suffix>.py
    _func.<suffix>.py.pickle.in
    _func.<suffix>.py.pickle.out

Usage::

  Will work with no commands.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help                        show this help message and exit
    -d DIR, --dir DIR                 Directory to clean
    -s, --suffix SUFFIX               Directory to clean
    -q, --qtype {torque,slurm,local}  Limit deletions to this qtype
    -n, --no-confirm                  Do not confirm before deleting (for scripts)
    -v, --verbose                     Show debug information

cluster-keywords
----------------

Prints simple help information on the available keyword arguments. It calls the
cluster_help() function, which means that keyword information is always up to
date.


Queue Management
================

This module provides simple queue management functions

To generate a queue object, do the following:

.. code:: python

  import cluster
  q = cluster.Queue(user='self')

This will give you a simple queue object containg a list of jobs that belong to
you.  If you do not provide user, all jobs are included for all users. You can
provide `qtype` to explicitly force the queue object to contain jobs from one
queing system (e.g. local or torque).

To get a dictionary of all jobs, running jobs, queued jobs, and complete jobs,
use:

.. code:: python

  q.jobs
  q.running
  q.complete
  q.queued

Every job has a number of attributes, including owner, nodes, cores, memory.

Advanced Usage
==============

Keyword Arguments
-----------------

To make submission easier, this module defines a number of keyword arguments in
the options.py file that can be used for all submission and Job() functions.
These include things like 'cores' and 'nodes' and 'mem'. 

The following is a complete list of arguments that can be used in this version::

  Used in every mode::
  cores:      Number of cores to use for the job
              Type: int; Default: 1
  modules:    Modules to load with the `module load` command
              Type: list; Default: None
  filedir:    Folder to write cluster files to, must be accessible to the compute
              nodes.
              Type: str; Default: .
  dir:        The working directory for the job
              Type: str; Default: path argument
  suffix:     A suffix to append to job files (e.g. job.suffix.qsub)
              Type: str; Default: cluster
  outfile:    File to write STDOUT to
              Type: str; Default: None
  errfile:    File to write STDERR to
              Type: str; Default: None

  Used for function calls::
  imports:    Imports to be used in function calls (e.g. sys, os) if not provided,
              defaults to all current imports, which may not work if you use complex
              imports. The list can include the import call, or just be a name, e.g.
              ['from os import path', 'sys']
              Type: list; Default: None

  Used only in local mode::
  threads:    Number of threads to use on the local machine
              Type: int; Default: 8

  Options that work in both slurm and torque::
  nodes:      Number of nodes to request
              Type: int; Default: 1
  features:   A comma-separated list of node features to require
              Type: list; Default: None
  time:       Walltime in HH:MM:SS
              Type: str; Default: 12:00:00
  mem:        Memory to use in MB (e.g. 4000)
              Type: ['int', 'str']; Default: 4000
  partition:  The partition/queue to run in (e.g. local/batch)
              Type: str; Default: None
  account:    Account to be charged
              Type: str; Default: None
  export:     Comma separated list of environmental variables to export
              Type: str; Default: None

  Used for slurm only::
  begin:      Start after this much time
              Type: str; Default: None

In addition some synonyms are allowed::

  cpus:                             cores
  memory:                           mem
  queue:                            partition
  depend, dependencies, dependency: depends

*Note:* Type is enforced, any provided argument must match that python type
(automatic conversion is attempted), the default is just a recommendation and is
not currently used. These arguments are passed like regular arguments to the
submission and Job() functions, eg::

  Job(nodes=1, cores=4, mem='20MB')

This will be interpretted correctly on any system. If torque or slurm are not
available, any cluster arguments will be ignored. The module will attempt to
honor the cores request, but if it exceeds the maximum number of cores on the
local machine, then the request will be trimmed accordingly (i.e. a 50 core
request will become 8 cores on an 8 core machine).

### Adding your own keywords

There are many more options available for torque and slurm, to add your own,
edit the options.py file, and look for CLUSTER_OPTS (or TORQUE/SLURM if your
keyword option is only availble on one system). Add your option using the same
format as is present in that file. The format is::

  ('name', {'slurm': '--option-str={}', 'torque': '--torque-option={}',
            'help': 'This is an option!', 'type': str, 'default': None})

You can also add list options, but they must include 'sjoin' and 'tjoin' keys to
define how to merge the list for slurm and torque, or you must write custom
option handling code in ``cluster.options.options_to_string()``. For an
excellent example of both approaches included in a single option, see the
'features' keyword above.

I happily accept pull requests for new option additions (any any other
improvements for that matter).

Profiles and the Config File
----------------------------

To avoid having to enter all keyword arguments every time, profiles can be used.
These profiles can store any of the above keywords and drastically simplify
submission. For example::

  job = submit(my_function, profile='large')
  
Instead of::

  job = submit(my_funtion, nodes=2, cores=16, mem='64GB', partition='bigjobs',
               features=['highmem'], export='PYTHONPATH')

These profiles are saved in a config file at ~/.python-cluster and can be
editted in that file directly, or using the below functions. To edit them in the
file directly, you must make sure that the section is labelled 'prof_<name>'
where <name> is whatever you want it to be called. e.g.::

  [prof_default]
  nodes = 1
  cores = 16
  time = 24:00:00
  mem = 32000

*Note:* a default profile must always exist, it will be added back if it does
not exist.

The easiest way to manage profiles is with the cluster_profile script in bin.
It defines several easy methods to manage both profiles and global options, see
the scripts section above for information.


Alternatively, the functions ``cluster.config_file.set_profile()`` and
``cluster.config_file.get_profile()`` can be used:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.set_profile('small', {'nodes': 1, 'cores': 1,
                                            'mem': '2GB'})
  cluster.config_file.get_profile('small')

To see all profiles run:

.. code:: python

  config_file.get_profile()

Other options are defined in the config file, including the maximum number of
jobs in the queue, the time to sleep between submissions, and other options. To
see these run:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.get_option()

You can set options with:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.set_option()

The defaults can be directly edited in ``config_file.py``, they are clearly
documented.

Job Files
---------

All jobs write out a job file before submission, even though this is not
necessary (or useful) with multiprocessing. In local mode, this is a `.cluster`
file, in slurm is is a `.cluster.sbatch` and a `.cluster.script` file, in torque
it is a `.cluster.qsub` file. 'cluster' is set by the suffix keyword, and can be
overridden.

To change the directory these files are written to, use the 'filedir' keyword
argument to Job or submit.

*NOTE:* This directory *must* be accessible to the compute nodes!!!

All jobs are assigned a name that is used to generate the output files,
including STDOUT and STDERR files. The default name for the out files is STDOUT:
name.cluster.out and STDERR: name.cluster.err. These can be overwridden with
keyword arguments.

All Job objects have a ``clean()`` method that will delete any left over files.
In addition there is a clean_job_files script that will delete all files made by
this package in any given directory. Be very careful with the script though, it
can clobber a lot of work all at once if it is used wrong. 

Dependecy Tracking
------------------

Dependency tracking is supported in all modes. Local mode uses a unique queueing
system that works similarly to torque and slurm and which is defined in
jobqueue.py.

To use dependency tracking in any mode pass a list of job ids to submit or
submit_file with the `dependencies` keyword argument.

Logging
-------

I use a custion logging script called logme to log errors. To get verbose
output, set logme.MIN_LEVEL to 'debug'. To reduce output, set logme.MIN_LEVEL to
'warn'.

Code Overview
=============

There are two important classes for interaction with the batch system: Job and
Queue. The essential flow of a job submission is:

.. code:: python

  job = Job(command/function, arguments, name)
  job.write()  # Writes the job submission files
  job.submit() # Submits the job
  job.wait()   # Waits for the job to complete
  job.stdout   # Prints the output from the job
  job.clean()  # Delete all of the files written

You can also wait for many jobs with the Queue class:

.. code:: python

  q = Queue(user='self')
  q.wait([job1, job2])

The jobs in this case can be either a Job class or a job number.


Issues and Contributing
=======================

If you have any trouble with this software add an issue in
https://github.com/MikeDacre/python-cluster/issues

If you want to help improve it, please fork the repo and send me pull requests
when you are done.
 

Roadmap
=======

Right now this software is in _beta_, to get to version 1.0 it needs to be
tested by users and demonstrated to be stable. In addition, I would like to
implement the following features prior to the release of v1.0:

 - Auto update Job scripts when attributes are changed until files are already
   written.
 - DONE: Profile managing script in bin
 - Update of all bin scripts to work with new options
 - Persistent job tracking in an sqlite database stored in $HOME
 - Mac OS X functionality
 - Autoadjusting of job options based on queue features (i.e. implement a 'max'
   option and try to guess the max cores available for a request on any machine)
 - Allow users to define their own keyword arguments in their configuration

If you have any other feature suggestions please email them to me at
mike.dacre@gmail.com or open an issue.

Commit message:

Changed name from Python Cluster to Fyrd
Python Cluster is taken several times over, I wanted a more creative
name. Fyrd is the Anglo-Saxon word for 'Army', plus it is just a great
word, so I am going with that.

As this is a large change, I am incrementing the version to beta.2. To
do this I changed the release string to handle semantic versioning
better.

I rebuilt the documentation and altered the configuration to work with
readthedocs.io.

docs/usage.rst, after:

.. This file is based on the README.rst file for the whole project.

Installation
============

This module will work with Python 2.7+ on Linux systems.

To install, use the standard python method:

.. code:: shell

  git clone https://github.com/MikeDacre/python-cluster
  cd python-cluster
  python ./setup.py install --user

In general you want user level install even if you have sudo access, as most
cluster environments share /home/<user> across the cluster, making this module
available everywhere.

*Note:* While the name is `python-cluster` you will import it just as `cluster`:

.. code:: python

  import cluster

Prerequisites
-------------

The only external module that I use in this software is `dill
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/dill>`_. It isn't 100% required but it makes
function submission much more stable.

If you choose to use dill, it must be installed cluster wide.

Function Submission
-------------------

In order to submit functions to the cluster, this module must import them on the
compute node. This means that all of your python modules must be available on
every compute node. To avoid pain and debugging, you can do this manually by
running this on your loggin node:

.. code:: shell

  freeze --local | grep -v '^\-e' | cut -d = -f 1 > module_list.txt

And then on the compute nodes:

.. code:: shell

  cat module_list.txt | xargs pip install --user

This will ensure that all of your modules are installed globally.

In general it is a good idea to install modules as `--user` with pip to avoid
this issue.

Simple Usage
============

Setting Environment
-------------------

To set the environement, set queue.MODE to one of ['torque', 'slurm', 'local'],
or run get_cluster_environment().

Simple Job Submission
---------------------

At its simplest, this module can be used by just executing submit(<command>),
where command is a function or system command/shell script. The module will
autodetect the cluster, generate an intuitive name, run the job, and write all
outputs to files in the current directory. These can be cleaned with
clean_dir().

To run with dependency tracking, run:

.. code:: python

  import cluster
  job  = cluster.submit(<command1>)
  job2 = cluster.submit(<command2>, dependencies=job1)
  exitcode, stdout, stderr = job2.get()  # Will block until job completes

Functions
---------

The submit function works well with python functions as well as with shell
scripts and shell commands.

*However,* in order for this to work, `cluster` ends up importing your original
script file on the nodes. This means that all code in your file will be
executed, so anything that isn't a function or class must be protected with an:

.. code:: python

  if __name__ == '__main__':

protecting statment.

If you do not do this you can end up with multi-submission and infinate
recursion, which could mess up your jobs or just crash the job, but either way,
it won't be good.

File Submission
---------------

If you want to just submit a file, that can be done like this:

.. code:: python

  from cluster import submit_file
  submit_file('/path/to/script', dependencies=[7, 9])

This will return the job number and will enter the job into the queue as
dependant on jobs 007 and 009. The dependencies can be omitted.

The Job Class
-------------

The core of this submission system is a `Job` class, this class allows easy
job handling and debugging. All of the above commands work well with the Job
class also, but more fine grained control is possible. For example:

.. code:: python
  
  my_job = """#!/bin/bash
  parallel /usr/bin/parser {} ::: folder/*.txt
  for i in folder/*.txt; do
      echo $i >> my_output.txt
      echo job_$i done!
  fi"""
  job = cluster.Job(my_job, cores=16)
  job.submit()
  job.wait()
  print(job.stdout)
  if job.exitcode != 0:
      print(job.stderr)

More is also possible, for a full description, see the API documentation here:
`Job Documentation <https://mikedacre.github.io/python-cluster/api.html#job-management>`_


Scripts
=======

While this software is designed to be used as a python library, several scripts
are provided to make life easier.

my-queue
--------

Uses python-cluster to check the job queue for only one user's jobs.  Produces
a very simple display, for full job information, the regular tools can be used
(e.g squeue)::

  Choose jobs to show, default is all:
    -r, --running  Show running jobs only
    -q, --queued   Show queued jobs only

  Choose alternate output style:
    -c, --count    Display count only
    -l, --list     Print space separated list of job numbers

cluster-profile
---------------

This script allows the user to save cluster keyword arguments in a config file
located at ~/.python-cluster.

Rather than edit that file directly, use this script to add profiles and
options.

There are two classes of options: global options, and profiles.

Global options will be used in all profiles, but only if the option is not
already present in the profile definition. Profiles must be called every time
and allow bundled keyword arguments, they can also be overridden by providing
keyword arguments at runtime.

Global options are great for saving a default queue.

Modes::

  General:
    :list:   Display all global options and profiles.

  Profile Management:
    :add:    Add a profile
             Usage: add profile_name keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :edit:   Edit an existing profile
             Usage: edit profile_name keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :remove: Delete an existing profile (The default profile will be recreated
             if it does not exist when a job is submitted.
             Usage: remove|del profile_name

  Global Option Management:
    :add-global:    Add a global keyword
                    Usage: add-global keyword:arg [keyword:arg ...]
    :remove-global: Remove a global keyword
                    Usage: remove-global|del-global keyword [keyword ...]

  Dangerous:
    :reset: Completely reset your entire profile to the defaults. 


monitor-jobs
------------
 
Blocks until provided jobs complete. Allows to monitor by user, partition, or
simple job list::

  Arguments are cumulative except user. For example::
    auto_resubmit -p bob -j 172436 172437
  user can be 'self'
  This command will monitor all jobs in the bob partition as
  well as the two jobs specified directly.
  However::
    monitor_jobs -p bob -u fred
  This command will only monitor fred's jobs in bob (the union).

clean-job-files
---------------

Uses the cluster.job.clean_dir() function to clean all job files in the current
directory.

Caution: The clean() function will delete **EVERY** file with extensions
matching those these::

    .<suffix>.err
    .<suffix>.out
    .<suffix>.sbatch & .cluster.script for slurm mode
    .<suffix>.qsub for torque mode
    .<suffix> for local mode
    _func.<suffix>.py
    _func.<suffix>.py.pickle.in
    _func.<suffix>.py.pickle.out

Usage::

  Will work with no commands.

  optional arguments:
    -h, --help                        show this help message and exit
    -d DIR, --dir DIR                 Directory to clean
    -s, --suffix SUFFIX               Directory to clean
    -q, --qtype {torque,slurm,local}  Limit deletions to this qtype
    -n, --no-confirm                  Do not confirm before deleting (for scripts)
    -v, --verbose                     Show debug information

cluster-keywords
----------------

Prints simple help information on the available keyword arguments. It calls the
cluster_help() function, which means that keyword information is always up to
date.


Queue Management
================

This module provides simple queue management functions

To generate a queue object, do the following:

.. code:: python

  import cluster
  q = cluster.Queue(user='self')

This will give you a simple queue object containg a list of jobs that belong to
you.  If you do not provide user, all jobs are included for all users. You can
provide `qtype` to explicitly force the queue object to contain jobs from one
queing system (e.g. local or torque).

To get a dictionary of all jobs, running jobs, queued jobs, and complete jobs,
use:

.. code:: python

  q.jobs
  q.running
  q.complete
  q.queued

Every job has a number of attributes, including owner, nodes, cores, memory.

Advanced Usage
==============

Keyword Arguments
-----------------

To make submission easier, this module defines a number of keyword arguments in
the options.py file that can be used for all submission and Job() functions.
These include things like 'cores' and 'nodes' and 'mem'. 

The following is a complete list of arguments that can be used in this version::

  Used in every mode::
  cores:      Number of cores to use for the job
              Type: int; Default: 1
  modules:    Modules to load with the `module load` command
              Type: list; Default: None
  filedir:    Folder to write cluster files to, must be accessible to the compute
              nodes.
              Type: str; Default: .
  dir:        The working directory for the job
              Type: str; Default: path argument
  suffix:     A suffix to append to job files (e.g. job.suffix.qsub)
              Type: str; Default: cluster
  outfile:    File to write STDOUT to
              Type: str; Default: None
  errfile:    File to write STDERR to
              Type: str; Default: None

  Used for function calls::
  imports:    Imports to be used in function calls (e.g. sys, os) if not provided,
              defaults to all current imports, which may not work if you use complex
              imports. The list can include the import call, or just be a name, e.g.
              ['from os import path', 'sys']
              Type: list; Default: None

  Used only in local mode::
  threads:    Number of threads to use on the local machine
              Type: int; Default: 8

  Options that work in both slurm and torque::
  nodes:      Number of nodes to request
              Type: int; Default: 1
  features:   A comma-separated list of node features to require
              Type: list; Default: None
  time:       Walltime in HH:MM:SS
              Type: str; Default: 12:00:00
  mem:        Memory to use in MB (e.g. 4000)
              Type: ['int', 'str']; Default: 4000
  partition:  The partition/queue to run in (e.g. local/batch)
              Type: str; Default: None
  account:    Account to be charged
              Type: str; Default: None
  export:     Comma separated list of environmental variables to export
              Type: str; Default: None

  Used for slurm only::
  begin:      Start after this much time
              Type: str; Default: None

In addition some synonyms are allowed::

  cpus:                             cores
  memory:                           mem
  queue:                            partition
  depend, dependencies, dependency: depends

*Note:* Type is enforced, any provided argument must match that python type
(automatic conversion is attempted), the default is just a recommendation and is
not currently used. These arguments are passed like regular arguments to the
submission and Job() functions, eg::

  Job(nodes=1, cores=4, mem='20MB')

This will be interpretted correctly on any system. If torque or slurm are not
available, any cluster arguments will be ignored. The module will attempt to
honor the cores request, but if it exceeds the maximum number of cores on the
local machine, then the request will be trimmed accordingly (i.e. a 50 core
request will become 8 cores on an 8 core machine).

### Adding your own keywords

There are many more options available for torque and slurm, to add your own,
edit the options.py file, and look for CLUSTER_OPTS (or TORQUE/SLURM if your
keyword option is only availble on one system). Add your option using the same
format as is present in that file. The format is::

  ('name', {'slurm': '--option-str={}', 'torque': '--torque-option={}',
            'help': 'This is an option!', 'type': str, 'default': None})

You can also add list options, but they must include 'sjoin' and 'tjoin' keys to
define how to merge the list for slurm and torque, or you must write custom
option handling code in ``cluster.options.options_to_string()``. For an
excellent example of both approaches included in a single option, see the
'features' keyword above.

I happily accept pull requests for new option additions (any any other
improvements for that matter).

Profiles and the Config File
----------------------------

To avoid having to enter all keyword arguments every time, profiles can be used.
These profiles can store any of the above keywords and drastically simplify
submission. For example::

  job = submit(my_function, profile='large')
  
Instead of::

  job = submit(my_funtion, nodes=2, cores=16, mem='64GB', partition='bigjobs',
               features=['highmem'], export='PYTHONPATH')

These profiles are saved in a config file at ~/.python-cluster and can be
editted in that file directly, or using the below functions. To edit them in the
file directly, you must make sure that the section is labelled 'prof_<name>'
where <name> is whatever you want it to be called. e.g.::

  [prof_default]
  nodes = 1
  cores = 16
  time = 24:00:00
  mem = 32000

*Note:* a default profile must always exist, it will be added back if it does
not exist.

The easiest way to manage profiles is with the cluster_profile script in bin.
It defines several easy methods to manage both profiles and global options, see
the scripts section above for information.


Alternatively, the functions ``cluster.config_file.set_profile()`` and
``cluster.config_file.get_profile()`` can be used:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.set_profile('small', {'nodes': 1, 'cores': 1,
                                            'mem': '2GB'})
  cluster.config_file.get_profile('small')

To see all profiles run:

.. code:: python

  config_file.get_profile()

Other options are defined in the config file, including the maximum number of
jobs in the queue, the time to sleep between submissions, and other options. To
see these run:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.get_option()

You can set options with:

.. code:: python

  cluster.config_file.set_option()

The defaults can be directly edited in ``config_file.py``, they are clearly
documented.

Job Files
---------

All jobs write out a job file before submission, even though this is not
necessary (or useful) with multiprocessing. In local mode, this is a `.cluster`
file, in slurm is is a `.cluster.sbatch` and a `.cluster.script` file, in torque
it is a `.cluster.qsub` file. 'cluster' is set by the suffix keyword, and can be
overridden.

To change the directory these files are written to, use the 'filedir' keyword
argument to Job or submit.

*NOTE:* This directory *must* be accessible to the compute nodes!!!

All jobs are assigned a name that is used to generate the output files,
including STDOUT and STDERR files. The default name for the out files is STDOUT:
name.cluster.out and STDERR: name.cluster.err. These can be overwridden with
keyword arguments.

All Job objects have a ``clean()`` method that will delete any left over files.
In addition there is a clean_job_files script that will delete all files made by
this package in any given directory. Be very careful with the script though, it
can clobber a lot of work all at once if it is used wrong. 

Dependecy Tracking
------------------

Dependency tracking is supported in all modes. Local mode uses a unique queueing
system that works similarly to torque and slurm and which is defined in
jobqueue.py.

To use dependency tracking in any mode pass a list of job ids to submit or
submit_file with the `dependencies` keyword argument.

Logging
-------

I use a custion logging script called logme to log errors. To get verbose
output, set logme.MIN_LEVEL to 'debug'. To reduce output, set logme.MIN_LEVEL to
'warn'.

Code Overview
=============

There are two important classes for interaction with the batch system: Job and
Queue. The essential flow of a job submission is:

.. code:: python

  job = Job(command/function, arguments, name)
  job.write()  # Writes the job submission files
  job.submit() # Submits the job
  job.wait()   # Waits for the job to complete
  job.stdout   # Prints the output from the job
  job.clean()  # Delete all of the files written

You can also wait for many jobs with the Queue class:

.. code:: python

  q = Queue(user='self')
  q.wait([job1, job2])

The jobs in this case can be either a Job class or a job number.


Why the Name?
=============

Fyrd is the old Anglo-Saxon word for 'army'. I am British, and this code
gives you an army of workers on any machine so it works :-)
 

Issues and Contributing
=======================

If you have any trouble with this software add an issue in
https://github.com/MikeDacre/python-cluster/issues

If you want to help improve it, please fork the repo and send me pull requests
when you are done.
 

Roadmap
=======

Right now this software is in _beta_, to get to version 1.0 it needs to be
tested by users and demonstrated to be stable. In addition, I would like to
implement the following features prior to the release of v1.0:

 - Auto update Job scripts when attributes are changed until files are already
   written.
 - DONE: Profile managing script in bin
 - Update of all bin scripts to work with new options
 - Persistent job tracking in an sqlite database stored in $HOME
 - Mac OS X functionality
 - Autoadjusting of job options based on queue features (i.e. implement a 'max'
   option and try to guess the max cores available for a request on any machine)
 - Allow users to define their own keyword arguments in their configuration

If you have any other feature suggestions please email them to me at
mike.dacre@gmail.com or open an issue.
